---
layout: post
title: "Right here, right now"
date: 2021-11-02T06:41:55.998Z
tags: ["post"]
---

# 14:56:21

I'll starting a public dev journal here.

I have, intermittently, been "writing" or logging down notes on programming since 2020. A journaling habit records my journey and learning. It helps me remember the past and look back to see how much progress I've made. It also serve sort of an archive where I can go back to look for ideas and that learning point or tutorial on a certain topic.

I'm keeping a public journal here, as I hope some of my ideas and logs can reach and inform people. I don't think I can write blog posts or articles, so I guess my readers will have to make do with my ramblings and notes.

# 15:53:58

One of the most annoying thing about taking notes, is the resistance to actual writing. I prefer type than handwritten, because I usually think faster than I can write. I'm looking to create a CLI tool using NodeJS. It will create a new file in the 'posts' folder in my current github pages repo, which is used to host this website and update the dev journal.

The ideal workflow should work like this:

```bash
# To create a new file with layout
journal new

# To commit the new journal entry
git add .
git commit -m "some commit message"
git push
```

# 16:28:18

I created a markdown snippet in VS Code to add the current timestamp.

1. Cmd + Shift + P to open the command panel
2. Select "Preferences: Configure User Snippets"
3. Search for "markdown" and open "markdown.json"
4. Insert the follow:

```json
  "Insert Timestamp": {
    "prefix": "timenow",
    "body": ["$CURRENT_HOUR:$CURRENT_MINUTE:$CURRENT_SECOND", "$0"],
    "description": "Insert current timestamp in hr:min:sec"
  }
```

5. Open the command panel again in step 1
6. Select "Preferences: Open Settings(JSON)"
7. Add the following settings:

```json
 "[markdown]": {
    "editor.wordWrap": "on",
    "editor.quickSuggestions": true
  }
```

Now if you are writing markdown files in VS Code, you should be able to use the snippet with shortcut prefix 'datenow' to insert a timestamp (hr:min:sec)

# 18:35:36

When writing React applications, I'm biased towards using [react-query](https://react-query.tanstack.com/) and [formik](https://formik.org/docs/overview) from the [TanStack](https://tanstack.com/) library.

Not sure, if this is over-reliance on certain open source packages.

The useQuery and useMutation hooks are really powerful for fetching and posting requests, with side-effects, and not having to managed React states and useEffects.
